chore: adding scrape classe (#6113)
prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator: Documentation/proposals/202305-scrapeclasses.md

Another motivation is to improve feature parity amongst the monitor resources. The `PodMonitor` and `Probe` resources aren't at parity with `ServiceMonitor` because the latter allows for unsafe TLS settings.

### Pitfalls of the current solution

The only known solution for use cases where you'd need to use unsafe TLS settings is to use `additionalScrapeConfig`.
The downside is obviously the loss of a great feature of the Prometheus Operator. The monitor resources make it possible
to compose the scrape configurations in a Kubernetes way.

## Goals

- Allow for the administrator to define a named, reusable scrape configuration snippet, including unsafe elements such as file references.
- Allow for a user to select a configuration snippet by name in their probe/podmonitor/servicemonitor endpoint configuration.
- Avoid giving the user the ability to use arbirary files within the Prometheus pod.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Non-Goals

- Allow Prometheus owners to override the configuration defined in the monitoring resources (at least in the first iteration).
```

### Audience

- Users who serve Prometheus as a service and want to give their customers autonomy in defining monitors, but want to provide a default configuration for scraping.

## How

The proposed solution is to introduce a notion of a *scrape class*, akin to a Kubernetes [storage class](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/).
A scrape class defines TLS settings (and possibly other settings in future, e.g. sensitive authorization settings) to be applied to all scrape configs of that class.

One scrape class may be designated as the default class, in which case that class is applied to any scrape config that doesn't specify a value for `scrapeClass`.

When defining a podmonitor/servicemonitor/probe/scrapeconfig, a user may assign a scrape class via the `scrapeClass` field.

> For monitors, each endpoint may be assigned a scrape class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.
```

Class names are assumed to be installation-specific. In practice, some common class names like `istio-mtls` are likely to emerge.

### Prometheus Resource

It is proposed that the `Prometheus` and `PrometheusAgent` resources contain a new section for defining scrape classes.

The rationale for defining scrape classes inline is that, in practice, the TLS file paths are closely related to the `volumeMounts`
of the `Prometheus` spec. An alternative is outlined later, of factoring the class definitions into a separate resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: Prometheus
spec:
  # define scrape classes for use by the monitors
  # one class may be designated as the default class
  scrapeClasses:
    - name: istio-mtls
      default: true
      tlsConfig:
        caFile: "/etc/istio-certs/root-cert.pem"
        certFile: "/etc/istio-certs/cert-chain.pem"
        keyFile: "/etc/istio-certs/key.pem"
        insecureSkipVerify: true

  # mount the certs from the istio sidecar (shown here for illustration purposes)
  volumeMounts:
    - name: istio-certs

>       mountPath: "/etc/istio-certs/"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      mountPath: "/etc/istio-certs/"
  volumes:
    - name: istio-certs
      secret:
        secretName: istio-certs
```

```

Any object references in the scrape class definition are assumed to refer to objects in the namespace of the `Prometheus` object.

### PodMonitor Resource

> Allow the user to select a scrape class for each endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow the user to select a scrape class which applies to all endpoints.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PodMonitor
spec:
  scrapeClass: istio-mtls
  podMetricsEndpoints:
  - port: http
    path: /metrics
```

The proposed behavior is:
1. the `tlsConfig` in the associated scrape class is automatically applied to the scrape configuration of the endpoint.

> 2. the inline `tlsConfig` (if any) takes precedence over the `tlsConfig` in the scrape class.

Reviewer: What are we saying?
1. When a tlsConfig field in the pod monitor's endpoint isn't defined, the operator picks up the corresponding value from the scrape class (merge approach).
2. The tlsConfig fields from the scrape class are applied only when the endpoint's tlsConfig is nil.

The latter is simpler but less flexible (e.g. we may want to apply the same CA file to all pod monitors but leave some freedom on the other other TLS params).

Author: The first one is what we're saying.
Btw @simonpasquier I've updated the description, wdyt?

### Probe Resource

Allow the user to select a scrape class for the probe.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: Probe
spec:
  scrapeClass: istio-mtls
```

### ServiceMonitor Resource

Allow the user to select a scrape class for each endpoint.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
spec:
  scrapeClass: istio-mtls
  endpoints:
  - port: http
    path: /metrics
```

> Out-of-scope: deprecation of the unsafe TLS settings in `ServiceMonitor`.

Reviewer: can it be moved to the non-goals section?

## Scrape Classes

* **Owners:**
  * `nicolastakashi`
  * `eronwright`

* **Related Tickets:**
  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/4121
  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3922
  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/5947
  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/5948

This proposal introduces the concept of *scrape classes*, enabling users to utilize scrape configuration data provided by the administrator, through scrape objects such as PodMonitor, Probe, ServiceMonitor and ScrapeConfig.

## Why

Sometimes Prometheus administrators needs to provide default configurations for scrape objects, such as the definition of TLS certificates, when running Prometheus to scrape pods in an Istio mesh with strict mTLS as described in [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#tls-settings).

> Another motivation is to improve feature parity amongst the monitor resources. The `PodMonitor` and `Probe` resources aren't at parity with `ServiceMonitor` because the latter allows for unsafe TLS settings.

Reviewer 2: This motivation sounds a bit weird, we can improve feature parity by allowing unsafe TLS on CRD that are still lacking 🤔

Author: I think it might be related.
https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3922
It shouldn't exists even on Service Monitors from what I understood.
Maybe I might be wrong 😅

### Pitfalls of the current solution

The only known solution for use cases where you'd need to use unsafe TLS settings is to use `additionalScrapeConfig`.
The downside is obviously the loss of a great feature of the Prometheus Operator. The monitor resources make it possible
to compose the scrape configurations in a Kubernetes way.

## Goals

- Allow for the administrator to define a named, reusable scrape configuration snippet, including unsafe elements such as file references.
- Allow for a user to select a configuration snippet by name in their probe/podmonitor/servicemonitor endpoint configuration.

> - Avoid giving the user the ability to use arbirary files within the Prometheus pod.
> ## Non-Goals

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid giving the user the ability to use arbirary files within the Prometheus pod.

## Non-Goals
```

> - Allow Prometheus owners to override the configuration defined in the monitoring resources (at least in the first iteration).
> ### Audience

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Allow Prometheus owners to override the configuration defined in the monitoring resources (at least in the first iteration).

### Audience
```

- Deprecation of the unsafe TLS settings in `ServiceMonitor`.

### Audience

- Users who serve Prometheus as a service and want to give their customers autonomy in defining monitors, but want to provide a default configuration for scraping.

## How

The proposed solution is to introduce a notion of a *scrape class*, akin to a Kubernetes [storage class](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/).
A scrape class defines TLS settings (and possibly other settings in future, e.g. sensitive authorization settings) to be applied to all scrape configs of that class.

One scrape class may be designated as the default class, in which case that class is applied to any scrape config that doesn't specify a value for `scrapeClass`.

When defining a podmonitor/servicemonitor/probe/scrapeconfig, a user may assign a scrape class via the `scrapeClass` field.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer 3: What then happens if a scrape class is removed? Do we remove the Monitor resources?

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer: @xiu yes, this should be the case.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Author: I made a couple of tests with Ingress and Ingress Class since the proposal has been changed to work close to this concept.

I tested using NGINX Ingress Controller because it's what I'm most familiar with and I noticed the following behavior.

> What happens when scrapeClassName doesn't match a scrape class of the Prometheus object? The explicit option from my POV is to reject the monitoring object.

When I tried to create an Ingress object referencing an ingressClass that didn't exist I was able to create the manifest but I saw error logs on the ingress pods.

```
I1129 08:56:05.747184       7 store.go:403] "Ignoring ingress because of error while validating ingress class" ingress=" default/ingress-with-auth" error=" no object matching key \"nginx\" in local store"
W1129 08:56:08.715138       7 controller.go:331] ignoring ingress ingress-with-auth in default based on annotation: no object matching key "nginx" in local store
I1129 08:56:08.715190       7 main.go:107] "successfully validated configuration, accepting" ingress="default/ingress-with-auth"
I1129 08:56:08.719779       7 store.go:436] "Ignoring ingress because of error while validating ingress class" ingress=" default/ingress-with-auth" error=" no object matching key \"nginx\" in local store"
```

I don't think this is the Best UX and I think we should reject the object is the class didn't exist, probable through admission webhook to provide a better experience. 

> What then happens if a scrape class is removed? Do we remove the Monitor resources?
I was able to delete the ingress class but when the controller reconciled the ingress object I got the same error as above.

Maybe we could add some finalizers to the scrape class to avoid this issue, tbh I'm not sure about the best strategy here.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer: > Maybe we could add some finalizers to the scrape class

Since the scrape class definition is part of the Prometheus CR, I'm not sure how finalizers would help.

To be clear, I'm fine with the operator rejecting a monitoring object that references a non-existing scrape class name. We have https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/4481 for implementing admission webhook for monitoring resources + https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/pull/6030 for emitting Kubernetes events on rejection.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer: >  I'm more in favor of dedicated CR tbh looking forward it will be easier to maintain.

Reading the proposal, I assumed that the ScrapeClass CRD wasn't the chosen option. I'm not convinced that a ScrapeClass CRD is simpler than defining the scrape classes inside the Prometheus resource.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Author: At the moment I copied the proposal as is from the original PR.
I have no doubts of having Scrape Classe at Prometheus Level is easier to implement and I do agree it provide a better DX while handling volumes for example.

But in the other hand it's limiting if you want to leverage same scrape classe between Agent and Server and also it may increase Prometheus Object a lot, especially after features such as default relabel configs be added to the Scrape Class.

Another thing to consider is having a Scrape Class CRD makes the Operator more close to the Ingress implementation which is something well know by the  k8s users.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer: Speaking of similarity with IngressClass, should a ScrapeClass CRD be namespace or cluster scoped?

* if namespace scoped, reusing a scrape class for different Prometheus/PrometheusAgent objects becomes limited. 
* if cluster scoped, a ScrapeClass is probably going to match a small number of Prometheus/PrometheusAgent object, due to the volume mounts.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Author: Yes!
I see your point the volume mounts couples the scrape class to the prometheus objects indeed and this makes a bit difficult to reuse cross prometheus instances. The solution I see for this is to have volumes definitions on the scrape class, but I'm not convinced about this one.

Ofc we can move forward with the ScrapeClass being defined on the Prometheus object and in the further if we think it makes more sense move to a dedicated CRD we can plan a work towards the new requirements/design and update this doc.

WDYT?

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Author: Cool 😄 
So just to summarise, let's keep the behaviour we described above.

- The Operator will not allow multiple default scrape classes
- If the endpoint selects a scrape class that didn't exists the Operator will reject the resource.
- If the delete the scrape class in use the Operator will fail the prometheus reconcile.

RIght?

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer 2: Sounds correct!

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer: > If the delete the scrape class in use the Operator will fail the prometheus reconcile.

IMHO it should behave the same as if the service monitor specifies a scrape class that doesn't exist

1. The Prometheus object is created with a scrape class named `foo`.
1. Service monitor A is created with `scrapeClassName: foo` -> the service monitor is selected by the Prometheus controller.
2. The Prometheus object is updated resulting in the scrape class `foo` being removed or renamed.
3. Service monitor A is rejected on the next reconciliation.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer 2: Hmmmm, sounds like a difficult thing to debug in case that happens.

We probably want to make sure we have logs/metrics/events that allow troubleshooting, also docs!

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Reviewer: I agree but it's not very different from a ServiceMonitor referring to a non-existing secret key for bearer token. #3611 and #3335 should help.

> When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Author: That's make total sense!
I've added this information to the doc cc @simonpasquier @ArthurSens

Class names are assumed to be installation-specific. In practice, some common class names like `istio-mtls` are likely to emerge.

### Prometheus Resource

It is proposed that the `Prometheus` and `PrometheusAgent` resources contain a new section for defining scrape classes.

The rationale for defining scrape classes inline is that, in practice, the TLS file paths are closely related to the `volumeMounts`

> of the `Prometheus` spec. An alternative is outlined later, of factoring the class definitions into a separate resource.

Reviewer 2: Well, I can see that new RBAC rules will be needed if going with the new CRD approach 🤔

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: Prometheus
spec:
  # define scrape classes for use by the monitors

>   # one class may be designated as the default class

Reviewer: (nit) When a resource defines several default scrape classes, it should fail the reconciliation.

or to use `exclude` annotations on the pod such that the metrics endpoint bypasses mTLS.

Objections:
1. This solution is less secure at a transport level unless TLS is implemented at the application layer.
2. Strict mTLS is the basis for [Istio authorization policy](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/), e.g. to explicitly allow access from prom to the metrics endpoint.

### ScrapeClass Resource

A variant of the proposed solution is to introduce a new custom resource for defining scrape classes.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScrapeClass
metadata:
  name: istio-mtls
spec:
  tlsConfig:
    caFile: "/etc/istio-certs/root-cert.pem"
    certFile: "/etc/istio-certs/cert-chain.pem"
    keyFile: "/etc/istio-certs/key.pem"
    insecureSkipVerify: true
```

An open question is whether the resource would be cluster-scoped or namespace-scoped.

Objections:
1. Since the file paths are dependent on the volume mounts in the server, this approach may not achieve a meaningful decoupling.

> 2. Extra complexity in defining a new CRD.

Reviewer 2: I don't see a problem with volumeMounts here...

The operator could inject volume and volume mounts into the statefulset if needed, I don't see why using a CRD ould force the user to manually set volumes

Author: I think it could be quite complex.
Because the `Scrape Class` will not have any definition of the source of information.
Given the `tlsConfig` it's just pointing to which path the certificate is defined, I can't see Prometheus being able to mount volumes only based on that information and I'm not sure if adding a reference to volumes on the `Scrape Class` makes sense.

That said!
I can agree we have two touch points here and not 100% of decoupling, but it is what it is

Reviewer 2: If we're defining TLS configuration in scrapeClasses, is there are reason to not specify the secret references here as well?

I couldn't understand why adding volume references in scrape classes wouldn't make sense 🤔

The only known solution for use cases where you'd need to use unsafe TLS settings is to use `additionalScrapeConfig`.

The downside is the loss of integration provided by Prometheus Operator through monitor resources to compose the scrape configurations in a Kubernetes way.

## Goals

- Allow for the administrator to define a named, reusable scrape configuration snippet, including unsafe elements such as file references.
- Allow for a user to select a configuration snippet by name in their probe/podmonitor/servicemonitor endpoint configuration.
- Avoid giving the user the ability to use arbirary files within the Prometheus pod.

## Non-Goals

- Provide a way for Prometheus administrators to enforce/override settings on scrape configurations.
- Deprecation of the unsafe TLS settings in `ServiceMonitor`.

### Audience

- Users who serve Prometheus as a service and want to give their customers autonomy in defining monitors, but want to provide a default configuration for scraping.

## How

The proposed solution is to introduce a notion of a *scrape class*, akin to a Kubernetes [storage class](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/).

> A scrape class defines TLS settings (and possibly other settings in future, e.g. sensitive authorization settings) to be applied to all scrape configs of that class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A scrape class defines TLS settings (and possibly other settings in future, e.g. sensitive authorization settings) to be applied to all scrape resources (ServiceMonitor, PodMonitor, Probe and ScrapeConfig) of that class.
```

One scrape class may be designated as the default class, in which case that class is applied to any scrape config that doesn't specify a value for `scrapeClass`.

> When defining a podmonitor/servicemonitor/probe/scrapeconfig, a user may assign a scrape class via the `scrapeClass` field.

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
When defining a podmonitor/servicemonitor/probe/scrapeconfig, a user may assign a scrape class via the `scrapeClassName field.
```

When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Class names are assumed to be installation-specific. In practice, some common class names like `istio-mtls` are likely to emerge.

### Prometheus Resource

> It is proposed that the `Prometheus` and `PrometheusAgent` resources contain a new section for defining scrape classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is proposed that the `Prometheus` and `PrometheusAgent` resources contain a new field for defining scrape classes.
```

The rationale for defining scrape classes inline is that, in practice, the TLS file paths are closely related to the `volumeMounts`
of the `Prometheus` spec. An alternative is outlined later, of factoring the class definitions into a separate resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: Prometheus
spec:
  # define scrape classes for use by the monitors
  # one class may be designated as the default class

>   # when a resource defines several default scrape classes, it should fail the reconciliation.

Reviewer: (nit) can you move L66-67 outside the code block to make them more visible?

  scrapeClasses:
    - name: istio-mtls
      default: true
      tlsConfig:
        caFile: "/etc/istio-certs/root-cert.pem"
        certFile: "/etc/istio-certs/cert-chain.pem"
        keyFile: "/etc/istio-certs/key.pem"
        insecureSkipVerify: true

  # mount the certs from the istio sidecar (shown here for illustration purposes)
  volumeMounts:
    - name: istio-certs
      mountPath: "/etc/istio-certs/"
  volumes:
  - emptyDir:
      medium: Memory
    name: istio-certs
```

Any object references in the scrape class definition are assumed to refer to objects in the namespace of the `Prometheus` object.

### PodMonitor Resource

Allow the user to select a scrape class which applies to all endpoints.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PodMonitor
spec:
  scrapeClassName: istio-mtls
  podMetricsEndpoints:
  - port: http
    path: /metrics
```

> If the `Monitor` resource has a `tlsConfig` field defined, the Operator will use a merge strategy to combine the `tlsConfig` fields from the PodMonitor object with the `tlsConfig` fields of the scrape class, the `tlsConfig` fields in the `PodMonitor` resource take precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `Monitor` resource has a `tlsConfig` field defined, the Operator will use a merge strategy to combine the `tlsConfig` fields from the PodMonitor object with the `tlsConfig` fields of the scrape class, the `tlsConfig` fields in the `PodMonitor` resource take precedence.

If the resource specifies a scrape class name that isn't defined in the Prometheus/PrometheusAgent object, then the scrape resource is dropped by the operator.

If the resource doesn't specify a scrape class name and the Prometheus/PrometheusAgent object defines a default scrape class, the operator will act as if the PodMonitor resource specified the default scrape class name.
```

### Probe Resource

> Allow the user to select a scrape class for the probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow the user to select a scrape class for the prober service.
```

### ScrapeClass Resource

A variant of the proposed solution is to introduce a new custom resource for defining scrape classes.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScrapeClass
metadata:
  name: istio-mtls
spec:
  tlsConfig:
    caFile: "/etc/istio-certs/root-cert.pem"
    certFile: "/etc/istio-certs/cert-chain.pem"
    keyFile: "/etc/istio-certs/key.pem"
    insecureSkipVerify: true
```

An open question is whether the resource would be cluster-scoped or namespace-scoped.

Objections:

1. Since the file paths are dependent on the volume mounts in the server, this approach may not achieve a meaningful decoupling.
2. Extra complexity in defining a new CRD.

### Non-Safe Monitors

Another alternative would be to allow `PodMonitor` and `Probe` to use unsafe TLS settings.

Objections:
1. See [explanation](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3922#issuecomment-802899950) for why
   unsafe settings were disallowed in the first place.

## Action Plan

> * [ ] Change the Operator API to define scrape classes and for endpoint to select a scrape class

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
* [ ] Change the Operator API to define scrape classes and for scrape resources to select a scrape class
```

  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/3922
  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/5947
  * https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/issues/5948

This proposal introduces the concept of *scrape classes*, enabling users to utilize scrape configuration data provided by the administrator, through scrape objects such as PodMonitor, Probe, ServiceMonitor and ScrapeConfig.

## Why

Sometimes Prometheus administrators needs to provide default configurations for scrape objects, such as the definition of TLS certificates, when running Prometheus to scrape pods in an Istio mesh with strict mTLS as described in [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#tls-settings).

Another motivation is to improve feature parity amongst the monitor resources. The `PodMonitor` and `Probe` resources aren't at parity with `ServiceMonitor` because the latter allows for unsafe TLS settings.

### Pitfalls of the current solution

The only known solution for use cases where you'd need to use unsafe TLS settings is to use `additionalScrapeConfig`.

> The downside is obviously the loss of a great feature of the Prometheus Operator. The monitor resources make it possible

Author: Yes, integration is a better word and feature on that case.
Updated can you review?

> The downside is obviously the loss of a great feature of the Prometheus Operator. The monitor resources make it possible

Reviewer 3: LGTM 👍

A scrape class defines TLS settings (and possibly other settings in future, e.g. sensitive authorization settings) to be applied to all scrape resources (ServiceMonitor, PodMonitor, Probe and ScrapeConfig) of that class.

One scrape class may be designated as the default class, in which case that class is applied to any scrape resource that doesn't specify a value for `scrapeClassName`.

When defining a podmonitor/servicemonitor/probe/scrapeconfig, a user may assign a scrape class via the `scrapeClassName field.
When there's a match, a scrape class is assigned to all the endpoints.

Class names are assumed to be installation-specific. In practice, some common class names like `istio-mtls` are likely to emerge.

### Prometheus Resource

It is proposed that the `Prometheus` and `PrometheusAgent` resources contain a new field for defining scrape classes.

The rationale for defining scrape classes inline is that, in practice, the TLS file paths are closely related to the `volumeMounts`
of the `Prometheus` spec. An alternative is outlined later, of factoring the class definitions into a separate resource.

> Define a scrape classes for use by the monitors, one class may be designated as the default class.

Reviewer: (nit) not sure that it reads properly
```suggestion
One (and only one) scrape class may be designated as the default class.
```

### PodMonitor Resource

Allow the user to select a scrape class which applies to all endpoints.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PodMonitor
spec:
  scrapeClassName: istio-mtls
  podMetricsEndpoints:
  - port: http
    path: /metrics
```

If the `Monitor` resource has a `tlsConfig` field defined, the Operator will use a merge strategy to combine the `tlsConfig` fields from the PodMonitor object with the `tlsConfig` fields of the scrape class, the `tlsConfig` fields in the `PodMonitor` resource take precedence.

If the resource specifies a scrape class name that isn't defined in the Prometheus/PrometheusAgent object, then the scrape resource is dropped by the operator.

If the resource doesn't specify a scrape class name and the Prometheus/PrometheusAgent object defines a default scrape class, the operator will act as if the PodMonitor resource specified the default scrape class name.

### Probe Resource

Allow the user to select a scrape class for the prober service.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: Probe
spec:
  scrapeClassName: istio-mtls
```

### ServiceMonitor Resource

> Allow the user to select a scrape class for each endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow the user to select a scrape class for all endpoints.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
spec:
  scrapeClassName: istio-mtls
  endpoints:
  - port: http
    path: /metrics
```

### ScrapeConfig

> Allow the user to select a scrape class for the generic scrape configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allow the user to select a scrape class for the whole scrape configuration.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: ScrapeConfig
metadata:
  name: scrape-config
spec:
  scrapeClassName: istio-mtls
  staticConfigs:
    [...]
  httpSDConfig:
    [...]
  fileSDConfig:
    [...]
```

> If the monitor resource specifies a scrape class name that isn't defined in the Prometheus/PrometheusAgent object, then the scrape resource is rejected by the operator.

Reviewer: (nit) it repeats a bit what is written  for PodMonitor. Maybe reorganize like this?

````
### Monitoring resources

If the monitor resource specifies a scrape class name ...

#### PodMonitor

< insert YAML example >

### Probe

Allow the user to select a scrape class for the prober service.

< insert YAML example >

...
````

This behavior is consistent with the behavior of monitor resources referencing a non-existing secret for bearer token authentication.

> To ensure users will have proper information about the error, the operator will emit an event with the error message on the monitor resource and also update the status of the monitor resource with the error message.

Reviewer: This isn't the case right now 

```suggestion
To ensure users will have proper information about the error, the operator may (in the future) emit an event with the error message on the monitor resource and also update the status of the monitor resource with the error message.
```
